Hi, friends. Welcome back to the last Data Science Hangout of 2022. I hope you all are
having a great week. If you're joining us for the first time today, thanks for coming
to Hangout. I'm Rachel. It's so nice to meet you. I see a bunch of people in the waiting
room, so let me just press the Admit All button one second here. But this is an open space
for the whole data science community to connect and chat about data science leadership, questions
you're facing, and getting to learn about what's going on in the world of data across
different industries. So together, we're all dedicated to creating a welcoming environment
for everybody, and we love to hear from everyone, no matter your level of experience or your
area of work as well. So there's always three ways that you can ask questions here in this
space and also provide your perspective. You can jump in by raising your hand on Zoom.
You can put questions into the Zoom chat, and feel free to put a little star next to
it if you want me to read it if you're in a coffee shop or your dog's barking or something
like that. And then third, we also have a Slido link where you can ask questions anonymously.
And I bet Hannah is sharing that in the chat here in just a second. If this is your first
Hangout today, I thought it'd be nice to see maybe have you say hi by putting a one into
the chat. And if you've been here before, put a two. For those who have been here before,
many times we'd love to all help welcome you in as well. And so just to let everybody
know, we do share the recordings of each session up to the pause at YouTube. So you can always
go back and rewatch or find helpful resources. We do also have a LinkedIn group for the Hangout
too if it helps you connect with each other. One more thing on the topic of recordings
and resources. I am hoping to take a quick pulse from the community this week on what
has worked well for you, what hasn't and any suggestions you have for next year. So we'll
share that link in the chat in a second too. But I so appreciate the thoughtful feedback
that so many of you have provided already, not only in a survey, but throughout the year
as well. So with all of that, thank you so much for being here. Let's jump in. This is
the first time my co-host is in the same building as me, not in the same room, but
so happy to be joined by my co-host today, JJ Laird, CEO and founder of Posit. So I throw
in the formerly known as RStudio. Thanks for joining us, JJ. I'd love to have you introduce
yourself and share a bit about your background and maybe also let us know something you like
to do outside of work too. Okay. Well, very briefly, I'm obviously do lots of software
engineering and product development now, but when I was younger, I studied political science
and I got very interested in data analysis. But I could took a deep detour from that and
got into writing software and worked on lots of different software products. And about
I think it was 11 or 12 years ago, I kind of became aware of R and I was actually looking
for opportunities to work on open source software. And I thought it was tremendously cool that sort
of the thing that got me interested in software in the first place and kind of the first thing
I wanted to do, which was data analysis, had this really, really vital open source project
associated with it. So I kind of just said, let me get involved with R. And then I've been doing
that at RStudio and now at Posit for, I think it's been 11 or 12 years. So I started the company
and I worked on the RStudio IDE. And then I worked quite a bit on R Markdown, a little bit on Shiny,
some stuff related to TensorFlow. And then about two or three years ago, I started a new project
called Cordo, which was sort of a re-imagining of R Markdown, both in terms of kind of like,
if we had to do it all over again from the beginning, what would we do? But also to make
R Markdown multi-language, to make it so it could work for R and Python and Julia and JavaScript and
kind of not really make it available for anyone who's doing scientific communication or doing
data analysis of any kind in any language. So that's what I've been working on and continuing
to work on now. So, and I get my hands in lots of other different projects here at RStudio too.
But so, and then, oh, what do I like to do outside of work? I like to play Magic the Gathering.
So. Awesome. Thank you. So I'd love to ask you, what made you so like,
interested in open source initially? Yeah. It was really that I actually worked on the first
couple big software projects I worked on were proprietary software. And I found it disappointing
that like proprietary software products kind of get very tied up with the company that sponsors
them and sort of the fate of that company and the other products that that company might offer or
who that company gets acquired by really like end up affecting the fate of the projects.
And I also found that, I mean, some proprietary software is either cheap or free or low cost, but
there's a certain, you know, impediment to adoption associated with the price that as a,
you know, as a creative person, I kind of want my work to be available as broadly as possible. So
I kind of both, it's like make the work available to as many people as possible,
but also there's like a dimension of like the durability of the work. Is the work going to be
around in 30 years or 40 years? What are the things that would make it not? So that's what
made open source appealing to me. I'm seeing a lot of love for Cordo in the chat right now,
but while we wait just a minute here for questions to come in from everybody.
I'm also curious, what are you most excited about at Posit in the next year ahead?
The next year? Well, it's going to be related to Cordo, of course, because that's what I'm
spending all my time on. I would say that the thing I'm excited about is we're, and you can
sort of see some of this work in the visual editor that's in our studio. But we really like,
we recognize that Cordo is really powerful and flexible and actually easy to use for a certain
subset of users who are very technical and very motivated, but we actually want to make Cordo
available more broadly. And so working on tooling that both lets technical people collaborate with
non-technical people over documents, and also lets some less technical people participate in
using Cordo are the kind of things that I'm focused on for the next
year. And I'm excited to see those getting realized.
Awesome. Sam, I see you put a question to the chat. Do you want to jump in?
Yeah, I just wanted to see what your thoughts were on AI tools like ChatGPT and GitHub.
Yeah, I think that I'm a little concerned that
companies are rushing these things out in the sort of excitement and novelty of them and have
not thought through the implications of their broader use. Something like ChatGPT is not really
like, the creators of it don't have full control of it. You can see that in the safeguards that
they attempted to put in, but then you can circumvent the safeguards and get it to tell
you things that it's not supposed to tell you. So I think things that are happening in AI and
generative AI specifically are exciting, but I feel like technology companies and technologists
just sometimes feel like we should do this because we can or we should do this because it's cool
and haven't thought about the broader social, political, economic implications. So I feel like
certainly exciting to see us come up with AI that is that powerful, but I think we're going
a little too fast. That would be my position. Thank you. Olivier, so you also asked a question
in the chat. You want to jump in? Sure. I was wondering, because I've been doing a lot of
retrospection lately. Yeah. In hindsight, what is one of the best decisions that you ever made for
your career, your education? I would say the best decision that I've ever made is probably that,
and this actually I think has a lot of commonality with talking to a lot of people
about their careers. I think when I was about in my late 30s, I had been involved in both
developing software and also starting companies, and I really learned about myself that
the company part of things, management and the entrepreneurship, and I really
did not like it all. I did not like it. I didn't enjoy it. I didn't, and so I kind of said,
I'm happy to be involved in starting companies, but I'm absolutely not going to do that part,
and I'm going to have to find a partner or other people who are excited about doing that part, and
what I really want to do is focus on engineering and product development, and I was really, it's
very easy as a company founder to get pulled into all kinds of other things, and that's what happened
to me the first two times, and just being super clear about that and saying, I won't even do it
unless I can satisfy this condition, and then, so I think that's pretty broadly applicable in that a
lot of us accumulate a lot of responsibility in our careers, and some of it's necessary and
important for a given role or company, but then eventually being clear about what do I
really like to do and really want to do, and what do I feel like I should do or what is put upon me.
I know a lot of people now who are in their 40s who have actually managed dozens of people,
and are like, yeah, I don't really want to do that anymore. I don't ever want to have anyone
work for me anymore, so I'm going to be really clear about that, and I'm going to walk in, and
people are going to try to give me people. They're going to try to make me a manager, and I'm not
going to do it, so I think it applies pretty broadly, but just knowing yourself and setting
like pretty rigid constraints about like what you're willing to do in the workplace and not, so.
Thank you. That's awesome. Yeah. Thank you. That's something that's definitely come up
quite a few times in this space, too, and that like jump to management, and then you lose out
on the technical side. Yeah, it's a hard one, and everybody's different, and both can be really
rewarding. I know a lot of people who find management very rewarding, but I know a lot
of people who find it really alienating, so it's. I see a few anonymous questions that came in, too,
so I want to make sure I jump over there, and one was will Posit work to make Python as enjoyable
to use as R? Well, we have a different kind of a special relationship with R in that, you know,
we have the tidyverse. We've sort of defined this sort of system within the system that's totally
internally, hopefully as much as possible, totally internally consistent, and it's really like really
well tooled end-to-end. I don't know that we'll ever be able to have that sort of relationship
to Python, because Python is, there's just so vast, and people are piecing together so many
different things from so many different places, so I think we'll make contributions, like we're
definitely focused right now on like doing Cordo for Python and Shiny for Python. Can we, I just
don't actually think that any company is big enough to like do for Python what we sort of did for R,
so I think we'll make it more pleasurable in places, but I don't know that it's going to
be anything like what we've done with R. Excuse me. You, I see you put a question into the chat
a bit earlier. Do you want to jump in next? Sure. Hi, JJ. Actually, my question is kind of piggybacking
on what you just said, so R as a programming language is almost 30 years old, and R versus Python
is an eternal topic, so where do we see R in the next 10 years? So actually R is even more,
it's even like over 40 years old, if you count S, which is its precursor. I think what
we're trying to do with R is, and you can see like a lot of the stuff that we've done, and maybe
it's not all super visible yet, but like some of the things we've done in the tidyverse in the last
year have been like focused on like making error messages much better, and so like I feel like
R has the potential to cross the, like go over the transom from people who are, do not program,
do not think of themselves as programmers, have not programmed to do successful, you know, kind
of code-first data science. I think R is actually pretty uniquely positioned to do that, and I feel
like we kind of are just getting started with that, so the people who today use, you know, they
may use Excel or SPSS or, you know, Tableau or, you know, they use, they do, they're doing data analysis,
but they're actually not able to ask and answer all the questions they should. I see R as being
like fitting right in that spot of the best way for someone who thinks of themselves, I'm a
biologist, I'm an economist, but I need to answer like difficult questions about data, so I see R
getting better and better and better in that, in that vector, and that's certainly where, like where
we're putting our time, at least in the Tidyverse team right now.
So we're now getting confessions into Slido, too, as someone said, so this is a confession and also
a call for suggestions. I love dplyr, Shiny, and R, but I'm switching to Python simply because
it's listed in a lot more jobs, and gives a better starting point for a possible career
change in other areas of programming, so what would you advise for someone in my position?
Well, there are a lot of ideas in R that you, you're familiar with, and then some of those
are carried over to, to different libraries in Python, so you can sort of try to find
the places in Python and adopt the projects that, there's definitely like some of the,
I think like Plot9, and I think it's like Sluba, I think, sort of a dplyr-like
library, like, so there are like Python libraries that are sort of very much inspired by their R
counterparts. You can adopt those, you can get involved with those. I don't think you're, you're
going to have quite the same end-to-end experience, but you can, and you can kind of, like I said,
like, get involved with the projects that you think do in Python what you love so much
about R, and try to get those, you know, more widely adopted.
Thank you, I see. Thanks, Jake, for sharing the link to Sluba there in the chat too.
Alan, I see some plus ones to your question, so I'd love to have you jump in and ask that too.
Yeah, sure. Hi, my question is about the impact that RStudios had on the community
over the years. I think it's been really positive in helping the community be welcoming and
encouraging and open in a way that I think folks agree, and we make lots of jokes about,
was not necessarily the way, like, when I was a grad student, for example. Was that a conscientious
orientation? I'm curious about the story of how you came to that kind of contribution in particular,
and how conscientious it was. Yeah, it was, I was very conscientious. I definitely think,
you know, a lot of us first encountered the R community in sort of a, like, less friendly mode,
and I think there was, that was sort of disappointing, like, wow, it'd be great if
more people felt welcome, and more people felt like they could come in and ask questions and
succeed. But I would, I would, I would credit primarily Hadley for his orientation around that.
He is, for those of you that know him or have heard him talk about this sort of stuff, he is
extremely passionate about inclusiveness and friendliness and welcomingness. Like, he is,
and he is, I mean, there's a lot of people here who believe in those things,
but he really set the tone for that, and for the whole community, and for the company. So,
it's definitely very self-conscious. That's great to hear. Yeah, it's really made an impact.
Thank you. Yeah. Thank you. Paul, I see you have your hand raised. Do you want to jump in?
Yeah, sure. Thank you. Thank you, guys. So, I guess my question, well, this is kind of a question,
but it's also, like, something that being, you know, having discussions with my, sorry, I'm
moving around the house. I have my newborn daughter. She was just born this Saturday,
so I'm here, like, taking diapers and everything, whatnot. So, yeah. So, I work for the Panama Canal
Authority, and the Panama Canal has recently created a data science unit. And so, basically,
we're, like, 16 people there, and I'm the only one that is a heavy R user, because we're, like,
divided. It's, like, me against the rest. Well, it's not, like, against, but it's, like, yeah. So,
we work in many different projects, and basically, everybody else does, you know, everything,
like, machine learning, and those sort of things in Python, and then I do my thing in R. So,
my question would be, how much, I mean, there's always a debate, and you always find on the
internet, like, these papers and discussions, like, whether to use R or Python for machine
learning, for AI, whatever. And I've seen, you know, all sorts of opinions about it. There's
people that is, like, okay, Python is better when it comes to AI and machine learning,
and then R is better for statistical computing, or for computational statistics purposes. Now,
I'm an actuary, and, you know, I've been using R since I used to work for insurance companies in
maybe 2006. And, you know, this is probably a testimony also. I've never had, you know,
the need to, you know, to use Python. I've used R for, you know, almost all my life for doing,
you know, computational stats and data analysis, and, you know, from all the time series and
whatnot. So, my question would be, in terms of its, you know, capability of dealing with large
data sets, in terms of its capability of, you know, for modeling, you know, machine learning,
machine learning purposes and everything, what would you say that, how would you say that R
compares to Python? Because that's something I'm always interested in, you know, knowing,
you know, just because I'm an R, heavy R user. And I'm not saying that Python, I mean, Python,
both are wonderful tools for data science and everything. But to me, I'm actually getting,
you know, I'm in my, I'm at Johns Hopkins University, getting a master's degree in data
science. And, you know, I try to use R as much as I can. I've been exposed to Python, but still,
I feel that statistical analysis is, it's, I think it's way easier with R than with Python.
Yeah, it definitely is. I would say statistical analysis, interactive data exploration,
communicate, you know, kind of creating data products that communicate things that are,
like R is better than Python at all those things, I think. It is not as strong of, it's not as
widely used as a language. So, it's not as general purpose. And I think in terms of, like, large data
sets, I think that mostly that is handled by either, like, external systems you interface with
or native code. So, like, dplyr or Datatable or DuckDB or Arrow or Spark. There's some means by
which you're being, you're able to access large data. It's not really confined by the language.
And I think that R's interfaces to those technologies are pretty comparable to Python.
I do think in terms of machine learning, there's a lot of machine learning packages in R. And,
you know, some of the, like, most important things like XGBoost and stuff work very well in R.
Python probably has a, like, we have created deep learning interfaces in R, both to TensorFlow and
Torch. But Python probably does have an edge in deep learning, I would say, in that you can use
those libraries and there's probably more, like, third part extensions to those things that are
available. So, but, like, deep learning is one part of, one part of machine learning, one part
of working with data. And it's not really predominant in some fields. It's really quite
important, but it's not really predominant. So, I think, you know, I think, like, I think what
we're hoping to make easy for our users is a world where if you want to use R and it is so much
easier for so many things, it's very easy for you to make that case. And so, like, things like
reticulate for interoperability, things like that, you know, we're trying to make it easy to
make that case. And so, I would say, like, for the things you're doing, R is clearly, clearly better.
I could certainly see where if someone says, I need, I'm using PyTorch, I like the Python
interface to PyTorch better. Sure, you know, so. Thank you. Yeah. So, sorry, Paul, I just see so
many questions in the chat. I just want to make sure we get to those too, but I see some great
recommendations in the chat too. And congrats again, we'd love to send you a onesie too.
So, if you want to DM me your address. But Lisa, I see you just asked a question in the chat a bit
earlier. Would you want to jump in? Sure. Yeah. So, I was just wondering about, like, success
cases using Posit products at companies. You know, I'll be honest, I'm essentially trying to
push for getting something other than RStudio Desktop at my job.
Yeah. So, what are some of the, maybe, you know, if there's a single success story that you love
to tell people about, or just some common themes? I would go to the, and Rachel might have better
pointers here, but we have quite a few things written up on our website about this. So, we go
to the Posit website. I don't know, Rachel, what do you think the best single destination for that
is? We've written up a lot of case studies. For customer stores? Yeah. So, I can copy the link
over for you. But I would also recommend the Champion site that I built, I guess, a few months
ago. It's still being updated with the new Posit site. So, not every great resource is there yet,
but it is coming. But I'll share those two links in the chat with you. I know, Lisa, you've seen it
that before, too. Let's see. Oh, thank you, Hannah, for helping with that.
But any other suggestions, JJ? That would be my main favorite stories. Yeah, that would be my main
suggestion. PK, I see you had some guidance there. Do you want to weigh in for Lisa?
Oh, can't speak. Okay. Well, there's some great suggestions there in the chat, too, and I appreciate
everyone sharing their experience. So, jumping over to a Slido question. Somebody had asked,
when do you know is a good time to move to a data science role based on your experience?
I may not be qualified to answer that question. This is about data science careers.
And this is, I guess, I'm trying to contextualize. This is move to a data science role from what?
So, it's an anonymous question, but I can try and guess. I'm imagining. So, let's say this person
is a business analyst and trying to make the move to data science. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah,
I'm not sure. I don't know. It's very, like, contextually dependent on organizations,
the organization that you're in, what sort of data science they're actually doing. You know,
there's, you know, and what sort of folks they like to hire and how they value different types
of work. So, I don't know that I have a good answer for that. I see, Travis, you asked a
question in the chat a little bit ago. Do you want to jump in? Sure. Hey, JJ. A question about
sort of open, you know, building a successful business on top of open source. So, a lot of us,
probably most of us here, I myself am in pharma. So, no one talks to each other and we all guard
our technical process and code as IP behind a closet somewhere. But there's, you know, momentum
going towards how do we do more open source and how do we start to talk to each other and still
grow and hire people and, you know, do the posit thing. I suspect there's probably a virtuous cycle
kind of shout out that you're going to give here, which is awesome. I always love to hear more about
that, but just kind of key pieces of advice for talking to CEOs, talking to business leaders,
orgs, and kind of convincing at a high level that this is the direction that we should go
and still be sustainable as a business. Yeah. I think that like, I mean, it's different, like
being just a technology vendor first is, it's a little different because you guys aren't a
technology vendor first. I'm assuming you're talking about, you're like work in a pharma
company. And so you're trying to figure out how can we create more ground for collaboration with
other pharma companies and the community. I think there you might make the case that
these sorts of things like enable everyone to collectively move forward. And then our core
competency is like, you know, like we always think of our studio is like the things that are paid
products are things that you buy when you're trying to adopt are at scale. You know, if you're
an individual, you rarely would have need for any of these things, but it's like, oh, we're an
organization of hundreds of people or we're, or dozens of people, or we're trying to deploy things
on the web securely and all that sort of thing. So I think that's like, there's the line there.
It's like sort of at scale. And, and I think, so it's not exactly the same reasoning chain,
but it is some kind of a virtuous cycle thing where you, I think you need to make the case
that somehow that like, like more collaboration with the community and other companies will,
will create situations where your core competency will be more valuable. You know, I know that,
that was one of the rationales, like for Google, when they open sourced to TensorFlow,
they basically said, well, we're going to be really, really good at, at training TensorFlow
models and hosting TensorFlow models. So if we get lots of people using TensorFlow,
then that's good for us, you know, or we, we get lots of machine learning researchers using
TensorFlow. Then when they come to work for us, they already know TensorFlow. And so, you know,
I think there can be things like that, where you're sort of creating a broader community,
you're creating network effects, and then your company then is in like in a good position
to help people use those things like at scale. I think like I can think of like Databricks
has a thing called MLflow, which is like a machine learning experiment management library. I think
they're rational and they were very clear about it. They're like, this is open source. You can
run it anywhere. Anybody can run it on their own machine, whatever. But we think we're going to be
really good at like hosting machine learning workloads at Databricks. So we think if you,
if more people use this, it's going to be easier for them to eventually interact with Databricks.
So, you know, there may be rationale along those lines in your particular industry.
Those are great examples. Thanks so much. Sure.
Thank you. And Lisa, I wanted to add on to your, your question to and just share a helpful
resource. Sorry, sometimes it's hard for me to like hear the question and look at the
questions in the chat at the same time. But Tiger Ting, who works at, works at Carfax,
gave a great talk at the RStudio conference last or this year on saving a thousand hours
with RStudio. It was selling R in your workplace, but a big lesson there was like selling the power
of automation and a lot of the time saved. So I would definitely recommend checking out that talk
too. So jumping over to some of the other questions here, I see, let me jump up to some
from earlier. One on Slido, JJ, was how does your usual day at work look? Any suggestions for
a mid-age new to data science career trying to balance work and life?
Yeah. I try to, one of the things I try to do is strictly segment my time. So I have time that I
can just be absorbed in solving problems or writing code or things like that. And that time,
like I just make it so like, I'm not going to, I refuse to be interrupted during that time. You
know, I'm not, I don't interleave those kinds of things that require more concentration and
thinking with things that are more transactional. And so I might, I might come to work and I might
spend four or five hours working on various problems that are in front of me. And then I
might spend 45 minutes looking at my email and Slack and just seeing, you know, who has anyone
been trying to communicate with me this morning? How urgent are those things? And then similarly,
I might do the same thing at, you know, later on in the day, I might say, okay, now I'm going to
do that again. But I think like not allowing yourself to be interrupted is really important.
And, you know, however many, like, even if, if like you're currently going from a place where
like you're in, you're interrupted the whole day long and you're constantly trying to interleave
like high concentration things, like you might be getting like way less done than you could.
And so even if you, you say, well, my job actually requires quite a bit of interaction,
even if you could set aside, you know, I'm trying to set aside six or seven hours for deep work
every day. If you could set aside two or three or four or five, whatever it is that you can manage
that, that makes a big difference. So, and I also try to be pretty, there's lots of things that you
could do in your work and in your job. There's lots of things that would be a good idea.
And I try to be really choosy about what I, what I actually say, yes, we're going to do.
Because I feel like if I say yes to too many things that it's very, it's very diluted.
Lots of things that really, that really matter. So.
How do you find six to seven hours of focus time as the CEO?
Well, this is what I said earlier. I said, when I, maybe some of you may have met Tarif Kouaf,
who's our president of our studio. He's been here, you know, for 10 years and that was our deal.
I said, I need to code for seven hours a day. So you got me for as much as you need. I'm your
partner. We can work whatever issues we need to work. We can, you know, I'm always here, but
like, it can't be a world where I'm getting, you know, that I don't, seven is like a rough
approximation, but you know, on any given day, it might vary. But so I think it goes back to
being clear, like, okay. As like someone else needs to be tending to those things, you know?
Thank you, Michael. I see you, you had asked a question much earlier about the company roadmap.
Do you want to jump in? Sure, I can jump in. Hi, JJ. I sort of feel like I'm talking to a celebrity
having been such an RStudio fan. So I appreciate you hopping on the last call of the year here.
I was just curious, you know, being such a big fan of the R community, what the roadmap
looks like for Posit and maybe one, three, five year strategy, quick, high level.
Yep. Well, I think you, you, you know, on the open source side, you can see that we are,
we're like, we're, we're trying to make Cordo and Shiny, you know, multi-language things. On the,
on the, like, modeling side, we actually are, we have some, we have some Python oriented modeling
projects, but we have, and we have tidy models. So that's, that's like, it's, it's, it's like TBD,
how much, how deep we're going to go in terms of like Python modeling, but we certainly have a big
commitment to doing, to, to, to tidy models. On the commercial product side, I think that our,
you know, our, our products now, I think, do a lot. I think they don't work together quite as
well as we'd like them to. So I think kind of putting the T in our studio or sorry, the T and
Posit team, making those products, Connect and Workbench and Desktop and Package Manager all
work together really, really well, is important to us. Integrating those things with the other
things that people are doing in their enterprise with data science is, is really important to us.
Providing a cloud version of those things is really important as well. Letting people maybe
start using the products in the cloud and then move to the, the on-prem or VPC based things or,
or vice versa, just kind of getting the, the, the like breadth of products scaled to what the
customer is able to adopt and absorb. And then I think we, we actually see this as a newer thing,
but like a significant role for, for our studio academy in providing learning experiences that
are really not, not kind of like, you know, not superficial and transactional, but really deep.
And so we're, we've been doing, we're pretty excited about what we've done with
our studio academy so far, and we'll be doing a lot more with that. So
that's some of the stuff that's on our, that's on our mind.
Thank you. Sure.
Eric, I see you just put a question into the chat as well. Do you want to jump in next?
Yes. Hi, JJ. I apologize for my voice. I'm getting over a nasty foo thing, but while my voice works
here, I was curious how you and your various teams at Posit, when you think about launching
a big initiative, such as Corridor or Chiming for Python, et cetera, what are you using internally
or at least what do you can reveal to really quantify if that's really being successful or not?
Because a lot of times when I have ideas at the day job where I think we can transform like
the way we operate or the way we analyze the results, it always comes back to a leadership
team saying, well, what's the value you're giving us? And that's a hard question for me to answer
sometimes. I'm wondering how you approach those. Well, I look at those things. Like I always look
at usage metrics and there's different proxies for usage metrics, like package downloads is one
usage metric that you have often. And so I look at what's the trend of usage, right? Is it an
accelerating trend? So I don't know in absolute terms if there's like a million downloads of
the Shiny package. I don't know if that's a lot or a little actually, because I don't know if
most people download it eight times or, you know, but I, so I kind of look at like momentum
of projects and I see what, like what the trend line looks like over time. And again, is it
accelerating as a way of sort of gauging, are we having the impact that we want? Is it growing
organically? Is like word of mouth leading to more adoption? So when I see projects that are kind of
flat in their adoption, I'm kind of like questioning, is that as important as we thought it
was? Because if it was, if it's flat, it means that people aren't, you know, like natural word
of mouth isn't growing it. So that's, I think the best we can really do is just look at like
adoption metrics and how they grow over time. And comparative adoption metrics, you go like,
what are some analogs, you know, to what we're doing? Okay, well, how do our adoption metrics
look like compared to that analog? So. Yeah, I do want to mention, at least for having Posit
Connect, the API does give us some interesting metrics on say, shiny app usage and things like
that. So that's at least a start. Yeah. And that's a great thing to say, okay, look, you know,
we started with this many users, look, it's like tripled in, you know, and so yeah, that's the
most convincing way to make the case, I think. Great. Thank you very much. Yep.
Okay, I see somebody else had asked on Slido, any advice on getting involved with Posit's
open source efforts, specifically in the shiny or machine learning areas?
Yep. I mean, I'll tell you, we always welcome people who get involved. And, you know, in many
cases, we've ended up hiring people who get really, really involved in projects. And I think,
and then the first way to get involved, if you're just sort of just like, I don't, I'm not
comfortable, you know, making pull requests, or really like trying to understand the code is just
like reporting issues. And, you know, making like PRs for documentation and things like that. So
that's like a first step that's kind of accessible to anyone. But I think that I mean, a really good
repo, and I think I think some of the tidyverse repos do this, they will actually tag their GitHub
issues with good first issue as a tag. Meaning like, if you're just just got off the bus, and
you don't know this project at all, you don't know the code, this could be a good first issue for
you to try to try to tackle. And you can even you can even you can even like go to a repo and say,
Hey, I don't I see you guys don't have any good first issue tags. Can you make some because I'd
like to work on some issues. I can tell you like that the people who maintain those repos will be
very excited about someone who says like, what are some issues I can work on. So I think working
on issues is a great way to learn the tech, start interacting with the development team.
And really, the like, the sky's the limit. And like, if you get in really get involved and
really make contributions, and really interact, I think I think you can do a lot. So
thank you. See, lots of other anonymous questions coming in here too. And, and one was,
there are lots of options for teaching coding. Have you thought about developing something for
the younger generation to begin learning are like K through 12?
We haven't. I think that would be awfully, awfully interesting if someone could could figure out how
to do that. Well, I mean, really, like what we've kind of gone, I've seen, you know, I have kids,
and I've seen them learn coding with various, the various like self paced online things.
One complaint I have would be, you you can learn some tricks, and you can learn, you know how to
write a loop how to set a variable how to, you know, but you don't actually learn how to do the
work. Because when you really sit down and do the work, you're really frustrated, you don't know
how things you have to learn how to do research, you have to learn how to read error messages,
there's like all this stuff that is not covered in these sort of, like, drilling on these tactical
skills. So like what, like in with RStudio Academy, we've kind of gone the other way. It's
like, let's, how can we have like a really thorough experience where people are doing real
projects, and they have mentors, and it's like real work. So like, that's the kind of thing I'd
So, like, that's the kind of thing I'd want to see in high school for high schoolers, like,
you're actually doing real work, you have a mentor, not you're just like,
you know, like cargo culting some tutorials. So, and that's the easy, like, it's easy to do the
like, hey, look, self paced tutorial learning, you know, but it doesn't actually really, really
get people where they need to be. So maybe some of the work that we're doing in Academy can
eventually turn into like, hey, if you're if you want to teach a course in high school on data
science, here's materials, and here's an approach. And here's like, here's a training thing you can
go to. So maybe some of that will will lead lead in that direction.
Do you see Cordo helping to fill the gaps between business users and data scientists?
Well, yeah, yeah. And that I think we do in the I think there's two ways. So like, the focus that
we have on creating data products, and not just data products that are static, but like
shiny applications, or scheduled, you know, reports that you can parameterize reports that
you can schedule. That is a way to take the expertise, knowledge, and skills of data scientists
and project them in a flexible way throughout the rest of the organization. So that's one piece
is sort of these, like, flexible, powerful, customized, bespoke data products. And the other
way is to, like we're saying before, like through the tidyverse, kind of trying to make people who,
you know, are actually capable of quite a bit of technical work, but have never done programming
to get them into a capacity where they're actually able to take a data set and do some of their own,
their own exploration.
Frank, I see you had put a question in the chat. You want to jump in next?
Of course. Hey, JJ, thanks for all your answers so far. I forget what response you were talking
about. You make sure that you get your time for doing the important work and you're focusing on
that stuff. And it just made me a few, it may remind me of a few of the podcasts that I listened
to in the books that I've read. And I'm curious if there's anything on your radar that you could
recommend? Maybe I haven't heard of yet. About that? I haven't listened to a lot of media about
that topic. Yeah. So I don't, I don't, I don't think I have any, any recommendations there.
How about just generally?
Generally? Yeah. I mean, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I listened to some, some kind of political and
social commentary stuff. I learned, listened to some Magic the Gathering stuff. Again,
this is all pretty particular flavored. I don't know that I'd make general recommendations from,
let me think. I will say that it goes back a little bit to the question about ChatGBT.
There is one organization and podcast that I do listen to that I do recommend. It's called,
there's an organization called the Center for Humane Technology. And they have a podcast about
sort of, it's sort of like, actually in the eighties and nineties, everyone was like a
techno-optimist, like the more tech, the better. And then we've seen in the last 10 years how
tech that's developed unreflectively and not adequately understood by its creators and not
adequately regulated by government can lead to some very, very unpleasant consequences. So the
Humane Tech Podcast covers, covers some of that ground. So I recommend that.
Looks awesome. I appreciate it.
Yep. That's the podcast.
Okay. Awesome. I thought you might also recommend the Chaos Machine. I know that was one that came
up.
That's what I recommend. Yeah. And that, that actually I got from the Humane Tech Podcast.
It's a very, very good book called the Chaos Machine, which is kind of about,
you can probably all mostly guess what the Chaos Machine is. It's modern social media
and kind of how it got that, how it got that way and what we might be able to do about it. So.
A few other anonymous questions. One was, your company has some really great people, Hadley,
Jenny, so many others. Did you recruit them or did these people just find you?
I would say more on the find. I think it's more like we just have maintained a lot of
relationships over time. And then sometimes that relationship evolves into like, hey,
you could, you know, you could, you could work here. What would that look like? So
it's, it's more just like a natural conversation that happens than a specific, like recruiting,
I would say. So, yeah.
I see, Jeff, you had asked the question a bit earlier. Do you want to jump in next?
Sure. Thanks for the invite today. Thanks for stopping by, JJ. Really appreciate it.
I'm a user of RStudio products, Posit products now, the enterprise solutions for about five
years. But as things kind of progress in the, in the data space, you know, getting a little bit
more decentralized, I guess you could say. I guess that brings me to this question, you know,
is there anything on the Posit roadmap to make analysis of Web3 data, blockchain data,
decentralized data sources a little bit easier? I don't know. There's probably packages that
people are working on that you're probably more aware of than I am to make this, this,
analyzing this sort of data possible. So there's, there's R packages, there's Python packages.
I don't know of anything in like our offerings or product strategy that are,
that are specifically targeted at that. So.
If anybody has package recommendations, feel free to share them in the chat too.
Okay. Thank you.
Let me check over to make sure there weren't questions from you all that I missed. I do
see quite a few others on, on Slido too. I want to make sure I asked them all of them that were
in the zoom chat, but one on Slido was what is your relationship with our core development team?
So we, a bunch of us have known a bunch of people on the R core development team for
quite a while. You know, I think Hadley's known people on the R core team for 20 years. I've
known a bunch of folks on the team for over 10 years. So we are colleagues in that way. We,
we know each other. Sometimes there's technical collaboration. We don't have actually anyone in
the company who's on R core, but we have some folks that do quite a bit of, you know, Lionel,
Lionel Henry comes to mind, folks that do quite a bit of communication with them, provide patches,
work, work on stuff, collaborate with them, but we're not, we don't have a,
that it's entirely its own, its own entity. We are like, I would say, I would say our,
I would characterize the relationship as just as collegial. We've got our stuff we're working on,
and they've got their stuff they're working on, and there's intersection, and we try to work
together to make things kind of work as well as they can when, when things come up that need to be,
need to be kind of resolved or run to ground or sorted out. So, you know, we had
a few times when we've had to like really work together on something to get it right,
and we, and we've had a good experience doing that.
There was a question earlier that I had missed that was around VS code and Sam, Sam and Alan,
thank you for helping bring it to my attention. It was with many useful new extensions,
VS code is an alternative that a lot of our programmers are switching to.
Where do you see the RStudio IDE in five years?
Well, I do think that the VS code is a very, it's a, it's a incredibly powerful, but
unopinionated text editing program, you know, programmers tool. So, I think if you're willing
to put the time in to learning it and customizing it, learning how to drive it, getting all your
extensions dialed, it's really powerful and really great. It, RStudio has a different philosophy.
RStudio has much more of an opinionated, these are the tools you're going to need to do data
analysis presented in a unified, clear, hopefully straightforward and simple way.
So, it's, it's actually kind of trying to do something different than VS code is. VS code
is trying to be like a maximally powerful extensible programmers editor. So, I think
it's possible to get, you know, with various extensions and we, you know, we have like our,
we have our Quarto extension for VS code. We're definitely doing a lot of work with VS code
for people who like, who kind of want that environment of like, I'm controlling everything
and I'm composing my IDE out of all these different parts and I'm customizing and configuring.
Great. But I actually think that many, many, many data scientists need something that's
more straightforward and streamlined and that's kind of where RStudio fits. So.
JJ, I see a question in the chat that I used to sometimes get when I was working at conferences
and somebody just asked, didn't Microsoft buy RStudio? No, no, no, no. Yeah, they bought
Revolution. Yeah, they bought a company called Revolution Analytics. Yes.
Another Slido question was thoughts to introduce a POSIT consulting arm. Imagine there are many
small mid-sized businesses that could benefit from data science, but don't have the resources.
Yeah, it comes up from time to time. I think that our approach to consulting,
one of the tricky things about consulting is that it is, to grow a consulting business,
you have to hire a lot of people. And so, you know, you might need to hire, to grow like a
significant consulting business, you might need to hire like hundreds of people. And that in and of
itself creates a lot of challenges, like managing an organization of hundreds of people. So we've
tended to be more on the like building a product organization, which can be a little bit more
like a product organization, which can be smaller, doesn't demand so much hiring for growth,
and try to find partners that are growing consulting businesses. And some of them are
larger, and some of them are smaller. Some of our best partners are 10, 5, 10, 15, 20 people.
And some of them aspire to be bigger than that. And some of them are happy being smaller. But
so we've kind of wanted to scale that presence through partners rather than do it ourselves.
Thank you. And Marlene, good call. I know it's helpful to paste the Slido questions into the
chat too. If Hannah or Robert, you could help me in the back background with some of those when
we're talking about them as well. But a question from, actually, I can do this, copy this one over
right now. Question from earlier on Slido was, do you have any advice for fellow data science
leaders on building and maintaining a great team, making a big positive impact in a business?
Yeah, I mean, I think I probably don't have great advice about that. I know when I've worked in very
large organizations, you do have to promote yourself. You do have to, you know, lots of
people need to understand the value of what you're doing. And I imagine that's a big part of
a big part of kind of thriving inside a bigger, as a data science team inside a bigger
environment. I think probably finding the people for whom you can add a lot of value and then
initiating work with them is like a good way to build. You kind of want to have stakeholders that
are outside of your group really excited about what you're doing and trying to help you grow what
you're doing. So sometimes you have to go find those people in the organization.
Definitely. Thank you. Another question over on Slido and then any questions that I have missed
from anybody as we get to the top of the hour, feel free to raise your hand on Zoom here as well
or just re-copy it into the chat. But one was, what would be the personality profile of an ideal
tech employee? It's interesting. I don't know. I would say one of the most important attributes
would be, I would say humility about what you know and don't know. So not, even if you are
really smart and knowledgeable and capable to not walk into situations where you're collaborating,
where you sort of bring that to sort of have the amateur's mindset of like, I don't know what the
answer is. Let's see if we can figure it out together. I think that's the vibe of technical
collaboration here. And that's not always the vibe of technical collaboration in companies.
Sometimes it's like strong personality versus strong personality. And I would say we very much
don't have that. So that's one attribute. But beyond that, I mean, we have people who love to
go give talks and be on Twitter. And we have people who just don't ever want to have anyone
talk to them about anything ever. So it's like there's a huge variety of personality types
for folks that work here. And we try to find a place for all of them.
Thank you very much. I don't see any other questions that were coming to mind that I
missed. So I'm going to go back over to some of the Slido ones for the last minute here.
But I did also want to remind everybody, because we were talking about the topic of self-promotion.
But in the beginning, when I was asking if you do have any feedback about the Data Science Hangout
and things that you'd like to see next year, I wanted to make sure I don't forget
to share the survey with you. So let me just copy that over there, too. Thank you.
Another question over here on, oh, this is not a question, but a comment. It says,
thank you, JJ, for leading POSIT and helping me avoid SPSS years ago in grad school.
Good.
Something that I, oh, I see, Andy, you just asked a question. I'll let you jump in first.
Yep.
Oh, yeah. Hi. So POSIT is a B Corporation, a benefit corporation. And I'm wondering if
you have anything to share, aside from public benefit of bringing this open source tool to
all of us that use it for free. Anything else around environmental or, you know, that
benefit corp structure?
I mean, the biggest thing that the biggest differentiating characteristic of public
benefit corporations is that they are, unlike traditional C Corps, which the kind of the
evolution of C Corps in the United States and the case law and things have made C Corps like
really pretty much, they're pretty much exclusively beholden to their shareholders
as the stakeholder that matters. The biggest thing about B Corps is it changes the
corporate law and corporate charter so that your stakeholders are considered more broadly,
your customers, your employees, your community, the environment, your shareholders, all
stakeholders, and your duty is to run the company for the benefit of all stakeholders and to balance
their concerns and interests. So that's the main thing. And then we also, the way the law
works is you also establish a public benefit that you're accountable to working towards. In our
case, it's open source software. We have, we actually get rated by the B Lab every three years.
And if you go look at our report, there's quite a bit in there about sustainability,
environmental sustainability, and that's like a bunch of the points come from that.
So I would say like, and we're actually about to get re-rated, so there'll be a new report coming
out next spring, or hopefully by February or March, that actually goes into more depth about
that. But if you look at our current benefit, your report, you'll see the different things
that we've done and are doing. AJ, do you have a meeting you're going to go run to in one minute
here? No. Or do you have one more minute? Oh, I haven't actually. No, it's fine. I am in the,
there is another meeting going on that I'm supposed to be at, but if I run over a minute
or two, that's fine. Okay. Thank you. One question that I did miss earlier was what areas do you
anticipate Posit growing and any career opportunities at Posit in these areas? Yeah.
Well, like one area of significant growth that has occurred over the last years is we've been
firing, like I said, we've been firing up the Posit Academy. We've hired quite a few people
as like educators in that group. So if that continues to go well, I think we'll definitely
be growing there. And then I would say that like the Posit business model and kind of, you know,
and kind of, you know, balance between open source and commercial software, I think we've,
we've sorted out pretty well. And so I think that the, the growth of the company will, will look
approximately like it is now. So like we have like, I think something like 40, 42 or 43% of
our engineers work on open source software and then a bunch of others work on commercial software.
So in software development, there's like, there's opportunities that are both in open source and
the best way to, by the way, get hired into open source is to become, be an open source
contributor. I would say there's almost no one in our open source group that just like applied
as like, I'm a software engineer. I'd like to do open source at Posit. It was all people that
actually literally were actually already doing open source software and actually collaborating
with us on GitHub, et cetera. And then we said, oh yeah, it'd be great. We can, we should work
together, you know? So, so that's, that's that. And then lots of opportunities, you know, in,
in, you know, sales and marketing and, and things like that, that you'll see on our website, but
yeah. Thank you, JJ. I'm seeing a lot of comments in here that says JJ for president. So
something to think about here. Okay. One last, one last question. Thank you, Jonathan,
for the great question here. What are some failures that you have learned from in your
career and how have you grown from your experience? Yeah. I'd say one failure was
the second kind of company that I started. I, the first company I started went pretty well
and I kind of thought that, oh, you know, the, the skill that I was applying there was like,
I the skill was like I don't want to say this, like coming up with like brand new ways to work
and brand new ideas is like a skill. And then that's what startup founders do. And I kind of
like in my second company, like try to create a whole bunch of brand new things, like, oh,
reimagine your work this way, do this totally different thing that you're doing now. And that
didn't go very well. And I kind of took from that, like, it's much better to be rooted in
what you observe people are doing exactly what they're doing and try to make that better.
So as an example, when we started, I started working in R, I wasn't a data scientist,
I wasn't an R programmer, and we easily could have said, okay, we're going to reimagine how
you work with R. We're going to build this brand new interface, forget about the console, forget
about, but I said, well, there's lots of people using R just this way. And so if I can just make
that better, then that's like a good foundation. So I think like overreaching in product design
is something that I definitely paid for in the second company that I started. And I've tried
to not do that, try to stay close to what people are doing, I'd say. I think I alluded to this
before, but like, not knowing yourself well, and finding yourself in sort of with responsibilities
and in a work situation, where you're not like being nourished the way you need to,
you can end up in that spot, and it's very hard to dig yourself out of it. So yeah, that's happened.
Thank you. I know I said that was the last question, but I don't want to end on like failure.
So I know something we talk about at Posit is creating a company that's around in 100 years.
What do you think is one of the most important
lessons learned or things that you're thinking about to get us to 100 years from now?
Well, I think the number one thing was get the right corporate structure. So all the incentives
are aligned. So that's the only thing we need to worry about. And we're not worried about
maximizing some short term objective. So that's one. Now, two is going to be leadership succession.
So it's easy to get caught up in like, oh, hey, you know, there's four or five of us that are
kind of leading things, and we're making it all work. And then like, yeah, but we're all going
to get old, you know. And so trying to figure out like over time, who are the people that are
going to succeed you and giving them opportunities to like even accelerate their learning and bring
them into the space that you're in is I think where a lot of organizations fail to be sustainable.
They may be like economically sustainable, they may have the right corporate incentives, but then
like succession kind of does them in. So that's something where it's not like right on our doorstep,
but it's something that's on my mind to think about. So.
Thank you. Thank you so much, JJ, for joining us today and sharing your experience.
This has been really fun. And thank you all for being a part of the Data Science Hangout today.
If this was your first one or for the past year and a half or however long we've been doing this,
thank you for coming to spend time with us all. I hope you and your families have a wonderful
holiday season and Happy New Year. This is our last Hangout for 2022, but we will be back here
after a bit of a holiday break. So we'll be back on Thursday, January 12th for the first Hangout of
2023. Thank you all so much for making this the best part of the week.